
## Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and Jeff Buckley

Jeff Buckley was a huge Nusrat fan & often said that Nusrat was infact his greatest inspiration, not just as a musician but even on a more spiritual level. Jeff, in his worst mental state and on the verge of committing suicide, found a dvd of Nusrat's compilation of Qawaalis, and he says that listening to this piece of music at that moment in time, saved his life. During his performance at Sin-E, he described him as "my Elvis" before he went on to cover Nusrat's song Yeh Jo Halka Halka Saroor Hai for the next 6 minutes. Not just an instrumental cover, he sang all the Urdu lyrics as well.

This is how Buckley described Qawwali music:

"In between the world of the flesh and the world of the spirit is the void. The Qawwali is the messenger who leaps empty-handed into the abyss & returns carrying messages of love from the Beloved (Allah). These messages have no words, per se, but at the high point of a Qawwali performance, they come in bursts of light into the hearts & minds of the members of the audience. (Of course, by that time the whole house is either hanging from the rafters, or dancing.) This is called Marifat, the inner knowledge, & it is in the aim of the Qawwali tradition to bring the listener into this state: first through the beauty of the poetry and the weight of its meaning; then, eventually, through the Qawwali's use of repetition; repeating the key phrases of the poem until the meaning has melted away to reveal the true form to the listener. I've seen Nusrat & his party repeatedly melt New Yorkers into human beings. At times I've seen him in such a trance while singing that I am sure that the world does not exist for him any longer. The effect it has is gorgeous. These men do not play music, they are music itself.

For the true Qawwali, all meanings of the music exist simultaneously & there is no need of purpose for religious dogma. There is only the pilgrimage to the light within the heart, which is the home of God. There is only a pure devotion and a fierce virtuosity to grow wings and soar through music. To plant a kiss on the eyes of Allah and then sing His loving gaze back home into the hearts of Man."