#fruit 

Before beginning, I want to clarify that I have a lot of questions about life, whose answers I struggle to seek everyday. This post is not meant to come off as advice, sound preachy, motivational, or condescending. These are simply things I learnt the hard way and wish someone had told me, in no particular order.

1. The first skill to learn is the ability to learn things from scratch, over and over. Learning is a lifelong process, or at least it should be. For many adults, the most difficult psychological hurdle is learning to overcome the fear of looking dumb when you start something new. To accept that you are a beginner in a new area and are "not good" at it yet after years of being an expert in your own area is pretty hard, and exactly why it is important. Being a beginner sucks, but that's where growth happens. Please watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qGAnLnvOTlM&ab_channel=LexClips) video of Zuckerberg talking about learning jiu jitsu as a 40 year old and embracing the humility which comes on knowing that that for all the power he has, he can still be beaten up. 
3. One of the most powerful forces in shaping your life isn't talent, or money, or connections, but simply showing up. By "showing up," I mean putting yourself in situations where interesting things can happen, even—or especially—when you're not explicitly invited. Most people don't do this. They wait for invitations, for permission, for someone to tell them it's okay to be somewhere or do something. But if you look at the lives of successful people, you'll often find a pattern of them not waiting for permission. The world tends to reward those who show up. So much of life—opportunities, relationships, insights—comes from being in the right place at the right time. And you can radically increase your odds of this happening by simply showing up more often. 
4. The older we grow, the less significant a single day in our life becomes. ie: for a 1 year old, a single day is 1/365th of life and for a 10 year old a single day is worth 1/3650th of their life. Thus as we grow our memory of the past gets blurrier and blurrier. That's why the best way to remember your life and to cherish it is to tell stories. Plenty of them. Relentlessly.
5. It is easier for you to do a hard thing that really matters than to do an easy thing that doesn’t really matter; audacious ideas motivate people.
6. Incentive structures in any relationship, personal/professional/otherwise, are a powerhouse which explain far too many situations and help you predict alot of outcomes (intended as well as unintended). Set them carefully. (point 8, 9 and 10 are loosely related)
7. Paraphrasing a Soren Kierkegaard quote, _You live life forwards, but it only makes sense when you look at it backwards._ Many Projects/career/ and other things you work on, especially early in your career, will not make sense when you are doing them. As long as you are putting yourself in situations where you are challenging your status quo and being out of your comfort zone to learn something new everyday, it is well worth it.  
8. Compounding exponentials are magic. In particular, you really want to build things in life that gets a compounding advantage with scale. Be it a business, relationships, stock portfolios etc etc. I am only 21 years old so I have barely seen any effects of compounding in my life so far other than perhaps in relationships with people, but the idea of exponentially growing value derived from meaningful areas of live by spending the early days by simply pushing harder than what people normally expect from you is truly fruitful.  
9. Focus on maximising on being process driven over outcome driven. In the end, we will not find happiness from the output of our work (which is static and fleeting), only in its process (which is continuous). If the outcome is not always in your hands, it is better to focus on and enjoy what is in your control; the process of how you reach that outcome. 
10. It is INCREDIBLY important to learn how to weigh costs against each other while making a decision. Many of the most challenging days I have had personally are the ones when I have had to take a decision on something. Making decisions is already very hard, and even more so when you are at a pivotal point of your life --  say choosing a college major, quitting a job, switching career tracks etc. I still have not learnt how to take decisions well but what has helped me streamline my thinking is a game theory concept, which Bezos calls the [Regret Minimization Framework](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwG_qR6XmDQ&pp=ygUdcmVncmV0IG1pbmltaXphdGlvbiBmcmFtZXdvcms%3D). I urge you to watch the 2  min video but to summarize in a line, the idea is to project yourself as a 80 year old looking back on your life and trying to minimize the number of regrets you have. When one zooms out to this degree, they realise that may have regretted accepting things the way they are over trying something because you thought it _could_ have failed. 
11. If opportunity and time permits, travel. I myself have not had the opportunity to extensively travel until recently, but meeting people from different walks of life has 1. made me learn things that I otherwise would not have learnt in the comfort of my own home/city and 2. has made me more grateful about the opportunities I have had to get me where I am, which I otherwise think are far less.   
13. Making time for family, friends, loved ones
14. 
15. who u surround yourself with
16. 
17. 