Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!

Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!Hey Rohan. Hope you are doing well. I am a First-Year Economics student from Pune and am really inspired by your work. Would love to connect with you, Cheers!

id: 72dd67a1fcd74b47957c09d0b90f4487
parent_id: ffdb2c9a9e7d4c91815e92eb7cf80b6e
created_time: 2021-01-27T05:42:05.264Z
updated_time: 2021-01-27T05:42:14.818Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1611726125263
user_created_time: 2021-01-27T05:42:05.264Z
user_updated_time: 2021-01-27T05:42:14.818Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
type_: 1