[[Abhinav Chikkara]] [[Vinamre Kassana Podcast]] 

People hate on tik tok because we hate the fact that the social barrier of the internets are shattered. Suddenly your Ramu kaka who was supposed to live in the servants quarter now has 100k followers and your instagram aesthetic page has 67. On some level we are jealous of this. Yes it can come out as cringe at times but one must realise that more than 99% of India isn't vogue like you are. Concepts like racism misogyny and sexism haven't been inculcated in them yet as they don't exactly have a degree from Ashoka and neither do they have a twitter to see that these values get you cancelled on the internet. Not that they'd care. In no way am I promoting this but my point here is that we've grown up living off so called bollywood blockbusters which showcase life as a tier 1 city indian dweller. Reality of the fact is that more than anything tiktok has given people from tier2 and tier3 cities a medium of expressing themselves and being there on the internet. Add that to the free internet given by Jio and these content creators now have a massive following who enjoy this content supporting them.
Is the content great? Well that depends on your thinking and your taste. Even if you don't more than half of India does. 
There's no reason for the hate. Over time these people too will realise that what they put out should not offend any caste or race or gender. These people have started using the internet in the last 2 years, in Internet years they are still very young. You don't tell a 3 year old to be politically correct do you?
